Docs: Minor cleanups from working on sampling bugfix (#14356)
apache/druid: docs/development/extensions-core/kinesis-ingestion.md

|`period`|ISO8601 Period|How often the supervisor will execute its management logic. Note that the supervisor will also run in response to certain events (such as tasks succeeding, failing, and reaching their taskDuration) so this value specifies the maximum time between iterations.|no (default == PT30S)|
|`useEarliestSequenceNumber`|Boolean|If a supervisor is managing a dataSource for the first time, it will obtain a set of starting sequence numbers from Kinesis. This flag determines whether it retrieves the earliest or latest sequence numbers in Kinesis. Under normal circumstances, subsequent tasks will start from where the previous segments ended so this flag will only be used on first run.|no (default == false)|
|`completionTimeout`|ISO8601 Period|The length of time to wait before declaring a publishing task as failed and terminating it. If this is set too low, your tasks may never publish. The publishing clock for a task begins roughly after `taskDuration` elapses.|no (default == PT6H)|

> |`lateMessageRejectionPeriod`|ISO8601 Period|Configure tasks to reject messages with timestamps earlier than this period before the task was created; for example if this is set to `PT1H` and the supervisor creates a task at *2016-01-01T12:00Z*, messages with timestamps earlier than *2016-01-01T11:00Z* will be dropped. This may help prevent concurrency issues if your data stream has late messages and you have multiple pipelines that need to operate on the same segments (e.g. a streaming and a nightly batch ingestion pipeline).|no (default == none)|

Reviewer: 👍🏻

Use the `inputFormat` to specify the data format for Kinesis indexing service unless you need a format only supported by the legacy `parser`.

> Supported `inputFormat`s include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supported values for `inputFormat` include:
```

|`indexSpecForIntermediatePersists`|Object|Defines segment storage format options to be used at indexing time for intermediate persisted temporary segments. This can be used to disable dimension/metric compression on intermediate segments to reduce memory required for final merging. However, disabling compression on intermediate segments might increase page cache use while they are used before getting merged into final segment published, see [IndexSpec](#indexspec) for possible values.| no (default = same as `indexSpec`)|
|`reportParseExceptions`|Boolean|If true, exceptions encountered during parsing will be thrown and will halt ingestion; if false, unparseable rows and fields will be skipped.|no (default == false)|
|`handoffConditionTimeout`|Long| Milliseconds to wait for segment handoff. It must be >= 0, where 0 means to wait forever.| no (default == 0)|

> |`resetOffsetAutomatically`|Boolean|Controls behavior when Druid needs to read Kinesis messages that are no longer available.<br/><br/>If false, the exception will bubble up, which will cause your tasks to fail and ingestion to halt. If this occurs, manual intervention is required to correct the situation, potentially using the [Reset Supervisor API](../../api-reference/api-reference.md#supervisors). This mode is useful for production, since it will make you aware of issues with ingestion.<br/><br/>If true, Druid will automatically reset to the earliest or latest sequence number available in Kinesis, based on the value of the `useEarliestSequenceNumber` property (earliest if true, latest if false). Please note that this can lead to data being *DROPPED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is false) or *DUPLICATED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is true) without your knowledge. Messages will be logged indicating that a reset has occurred, but ingestion will continue. This mode is useful for non-production situations since it will make Druid attempt to recover from problems automatically, even if they lead to quiet dropping or duplicating of data.|no (default == false)|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`resetOffsetAutomatically`|Boolean|Controls behavior when Druid needs to read Kinesis messages that are no longer available.<br/><br/>If false, the exception bubbles up, causing tasks to fail and ingestion to halt. If this occurs, manual intervention is required to correct the situation, potentially using the [Reset Supervisor API](../../api-reference/api-reference.md#supervisors). This mode is useful for production, since it highlights issues with ingestion.<br/><br/>If true, Druid automatically resets to the earliest or latest sequence number available in Kinesis, based on the value of the `useEarliestSequenceNumber` property (earliest if true, latest if false). Note that this can lead to data being *DROPPED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is false) or *DUPLICATED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is true) without your knowledge. Druid will log messages indicating that a reset has occurred without interrupting ingestion. This mode is useful for non-production situations since it enables Druid to recover from problems automatically, even if they lead to quiet dropping or duplicating of data.|no (default == false)|
```
Removed most of the future tense and shortened some of the sentences to help with readability.

|`skipSequenceNumberAvailabilityCheck`|Boolean|Whether to enable checking if the current sequence number is still available in a particular Kinesis shard. If set to false, the indexing task will attempt to reset the current sequence number (or not), depending on the value of `resetOffsetAutomatically`.|no (default == false)|
|`workerThreads`|Integer|The number of threads that the supervisor uses to handle requests/responses for worker tasks, along with any other internal asynchronous operation.|no (default == min(10, taskCount))|

> |`chatAsync`|Boolean| If true, use asynchronous communication with indexing tasks, and ignore the `chatThreads` parameter. If false, use synchronous communication in a thread pool of size `chatThreads`.| no (default == true)|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`chatAsync`|Boolean| If true, the supervisor uses asynchronous communication with indexing tasks and ignores the `chatThreads` parameter. If false, the supervisor uses synchronous communication in a thread pool of size `chatThreads`.| no (default == true)|
```
I am assuming this parameter controls the behavior of the supervisor.

|`chatThreads`|Integer| The number of threads that will be used for communicating with indexing tasks. Ignored if `chatAsync` is `true` (the default).| no (default == min(10, taskCount * replicas))|
|`chatRetries`|Integer|The number of times HTTP requests to indexing tasks will be retried before considering tasks unresponsive.| no (default == 8)|
|`httpTimeout`|ISO8601 Period|How long to wait for a HTTP response from an indexing task.|no (default == PT10S)|
|`shutdownTimeout`|ISO8601 Period|How long to wait for the supervisor to attempt a graceful shutdown of tasks before exiting.|no (default == PT80S)|
|`recordBufferSize`|Integer|Size of the buffer (number of events) used between the Kinesis fetch threads and the main ingestion thread.|no (see [Determining fetch settings](#determining-fetch-settings) for defaults)|
|`recordBufferOfferTimeout`|Integer|Length of time in milliseconds to wait for space to become available in the buffer before timing out.| no (default == 5000)|
|`recordBufferFullWait`|Integer|Length of time in milliseconds to wait for the buffer to drain before attempting to fetch records from Kinesis again.|no (default == 5000)|

> |`fetchThreads`|Integer|Size of the pool of threads fetching data from Kinesis. There is no benefit in having more threads than Kinesis shards.|no (default == procs * 2, where "procs" is the number of processors available to the task)|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`fetchThreads`|Integer|Size of the pool of threads fetching data from Kinesis. There is no benefit in having more threads than Kinesis shards.|no (default == procs * 2, where `procs` is the number of processors available to the task)|
```
Should `procs` be in code font?

|`logParseExceptions`|Boolean|If true, log an error message when a parsing exception occurs, containing information about the row where the error occurred.|no, default == false|
|`maxParseExceptions`|Integer|The maximum number of parse exceptions that can occur before the task halts ingestion and fails. Overridden if `reportParseExceptions` is set.|no, unlimited default|
|`maxSavedParseExceptions`|Integer|When a parse exception occurs, Druid can keep track of the most recent parse exceptions. "maxSavedParseExceptions" limits how many exception instances will be saved. These saved exceptions will be made available after the task finishes in the [task completion report](../../ingestion/tasks.md#task-reports). Overridden if `reportParseExceptions` is set.|no, default == 0|
|`maxRecordsPerPoll`|Integer|The maximum number of records/events to be fetched from buffer per poll. The actual maximum will be `Max(maxRecordsPerPoll, Max(bufferSize, 1))`|no (see [Determining fetch settings](#determining-fetch-settings) for defaults)|

> |`repartitionTransitionDuration`|ISO8601 Period|When shards are split or merged, the supervisor will recompute shard -> task group mappings, and signal any running tasks created under the old mappings to stop early at (current time + `repartitionTransitionDuration`). Stopping the tasks early allows Druid to begin reading from the new shards more quickly. The repartition transition wait time controlled by this property gives the stream additional time to write records to the new shards after the split/merge, which helps avoid issues with [empty shard handling](https://github.com/apache/druid/issues/7600).|no, (default == PT2M)|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`repartitionTransitionDuration`|ISO8601 period|When shards are split or merged, the supervisor recomputes shard to task group mappings. The supervisor also signals any running tasks created under the old mappings to stop early at (current time + `repartitionTransitionDuration`). Stopping the tasks early allows Druid to begin reading from the new shards more quickly. The repartition transition wait time controlled by this property gives the stream additional time to write records to the new shards after the split or merge, which helps avoid issues with [empty shard handling](https://github.com/apache/druid/issues/7600).|no, (default == PT2M)|
```
Removed future tense. 
Consider removing parenthesis from "(current time + `repartitionTransitionDuration`)". Maybe rewrite that sentence so that there is no need to use parenthesis.

> |`offsetFetchPeriod`|ISO8601 Period|How often the supervisor queries Kinesis and the indexing tasks to fetch current offsets and calculate lag. If the user-specified value is below the minimum value (`PT5S`), the supervisor ignores the value and uses the minimum value instead.|no (default == PT30S, min == PT5S)|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|`offsetFetchPeriod`|ISO8601 period|How often the supervisor queries Kinesis and the indexing tasks to fetch current offsets and calculate lag. If the user-specified value is below the minimum value (`PT5S`), the supervisor ignores the value and uses the minimum value instead.|no (default == PT30S, min == PT5S)|
```

|`indexSpecForIntermediatePersists`|Object|Defines segment storage format options to be used at indexing time for intermediate persisted temporary segments. This can be used to disable dimension/metric compression on intermediate segments to reduce memory required for final merging. However, disabling compression on intermediate segments might increase page cache use while they are used before getting merged into final segment published, see [IndexSpec](#indexspec) for possible values.| no (default = same as `indexSpec`)|
|`reportParseExceptions`|Boolean|If true, exceptions encountered during parsing will be thrown and will halt ingestion; if false, unparseable rows and fields will be skipped.|no (default == false)|
|`handoffConditionTimeout`|Long| Milliseconds to wait for segment handoff. It must be >= 0, where 0 means to wait forever.| no (default == 0)|

> |`resetOffsetAutomatically`|Boolean|Controls behavior when Druid needs to read Kinesis messages that are no longer available.<br/><br/>If false, the exception will bubble up, which will cause your tasks to fail and ingestion to halt. If this occurs, manual intervention is required to correct the situation; potentially using the [Reset Supervisor API](../../api-reference/api-reference.md#supervisors). This mode is useful for production, since it will make you aware of issues with ingestion.<br/><br/>If true, Druid will automatically reset to the earlier or latest sequence number available in Kinesis, based on the value of the `useEarliestSequenceNumber` property (earliest if true, latest if false). Please note that this can lead to data being *DROPPED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is false) or *DUPLICATED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is true) without your knowledge. Messages will be logged indicating that a reset has occurred, but ingestion will continue. This mode is useful for non-production situations, since it will make Druid attempt to recover from problems automatically, even if they lead to quiet dropping or duplicating of data.|no (default == false)|

Author: This change has been done automatically by a [markdownlint](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint) extension I used, specifically [`MD049`](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/v0.28.2/doc/md049.md) for consistent emphasis style. You're correct that it doesn't render any different Markdown, but overall consistency is probably not a bad thing, wouldn't you agree?

> |`resetOffsetAutomatically`|Boolean|Controls behavior when Druid needs to read Kinesis messages that are no longer available.<br/><br/>If false, the exception will bubble up, which will cause your tasks to fail and ingestion to halt. If this occurs, manual intervention is required to correct the situation; potentially using the [Reset Supervisor API](../../api-reference/api-reference.md#supervisors). This mode is useful for production, since it will make you aware of issues with ingestion.<br/><br/>If true, Druid will automatically reset to the earlier or latest sequence number available in Kinesis, based on the value of the `useEarliestSequenceNumber` property (earliest if true, latest if false). Please note that this can lead to data being *DROPPED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is false) or *DUPLICATED* (if `useEarliestSequenceNumber` is true) without your knowledge. Messages will be logged indicating that a reset has occurred, but ingestion will continue. This mode is useful for non-production situations, since it will make Druid attempt to recover from problems automatically, even if they lead to quiet dropping or duplicating of data.|no (default == false)|

Reviewer: Formatting tools can be tricky as every contributor might be using their own preferred one, unless there is one recommended as a Druid standard. There is only so much consistency we can (or would want to) enforce as after all, every developer has their own style. Think of it is as using a classic `for (i = 0; ++i)` loop vs a `for each` loop vs the `forEach` operator from the Streams API. In some cases, they might improve readability/object creation but in others, they really make no difference.

I am okay with the change to the list item marker as it is fairly small. But this description of `resetOffsetAutomatically` is rather complicated and I would prefer we touch it only when needed.

|`maxParseExceptions`|Integer|The maximum number of parse exceptions that can occur before the task halts ingestion and fails. Overridden if `reportParseExceptions` is set.|no, unlimited default|
|`maxSavedParseExceptions`|Integer|When a parse exception occurs, Druid can keep track of the most recent parse exceptions. "maxSavedParseExceptions" limits how many exception instances will be saved. These saved exceptions will be made available after the task finishes in the [task completion report](../../ingestion/tasks.md#task-reports). Overridden if `reportParseExceptions` is set.|no, default == 0|
|`maxRecordsPerPoll`|Integer|The maximum number of records/events to be fetched from buffer per poll. The actual maximum will be `Max(maxRecordsPerPoll, Max(bufferSize, 1))`|no (see [Determining fetch settings](#determining-fetch-settings) for defaults)|

> |`repartitionTransitionDuration`|ISO8601 Period|When shards are split or merged, the supervisor will recompute shard -> task group mappings, and signal any running tasks created under the old mappings to stop early at (current time + `repartitionTransitionDuration`). Stopping the tasks early allows Druid to begin reading from the new shards more quickly. The repartition transition wait time controlled by this property gives the stream additional time to write records to the new shards after the split/merge, which helps avoid the issues with empty shard handling described at <https://github.com/apache/druid/issues/7600>.|no, (default == PT2M)|

Author: Good idea, updated.

profile provider (in this order).

To ingest data from Kinesis, ensure that the policy attached to your IAM role contains the necessary permissions.
The required permissions depend on the value of `useListShards`.

If the `useListShards` flag is set to `true`, you need following permissions:

> - `ListStreams`: required to list your data streams

Author: Yeah, similarly to above tooling updated according to [MD004](https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint/blob/v0.28.2/doc/md004.md).

If the `useListShards` flag is set to `false`, you need following permissions:

- `ListStreams`: required to list your data streams
- `Get*`: required for `GetShardIterator`
- `GetRecords`: required to get data records from a data stream's shard
- `DescribeStream`: required to describe the specified data stream

**Example policy**

> ```

Author: Good idea, updated this and another instance.

### Resetting Supervisors

> The `POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/<supervisorId>/reset` operation clears stored

Author: The next person might forget though, so wouldn't this set a good precedent (for cleanup)?

A supervisor is stopped via the `POST /druid/indexer/v1/supervisor/<supervisorId>/terminate` endpoint. This places a
tombstone marker in the database (to prevent the supervisor from being reloaded on a restart) and then gracefully
shuts down the currently running supervisor. When a supervisor is shut down in this way, it will instruct its

> managed tasks to stop reading and begin publishing its segments immediately. The call to the shutdown endpoint will

Reviewer: "publishing _their_ segments" was the correct version, I believe. The tasks are supposed to publish segments, not the supervisor.

Author: Thanks! I split it into to phrases to make that clear :)

#### On the Subject of Segments

Each Kinesis Indexing Task puts events consumed from Kinesis Shards assigned to it in a single segment for each segment
granular interval until maxRowsPerSegment, maxTotalRows or intermediateHandoffPeriod limit is reached. At this point, a new shard
for this segment granularity is created for further events. Kinesis Indexing Task also does incremental hand-offs which
means that all the segments created by a task will not be held up till the task duration is over. As soon as maxRowsPerSegment,
maxTotalRows or intermediateHandoffPeriod limit is hit, all the segments held by the task at that point in time will be handed-off
and new set of segments will be created for further events. This means that the task can run for longer durations of time
without accumulating old segments locally on Middle Manager processes, and it is encouraged to do so.

Kinesis Indexing Service may still produce some small segments. Let's say the task duration is 4 hours, segment granularity
is set to an HOUR and Supervisor was started at 9:10 then after 4 hours at 13:10. The new set of tasks will be started and

> events for the interval 13:00 - 14:00 may be split across a previous and new set of tasks. If you see it becoming a problem then

Reviewer: ```suggestion
events for the interval 13:00 - 14:00 may be split across the previous and the new set of tasks. If you see it becoming a problem then
```

Kinesis tasks pause by `fetchDelayMillis` or 3 seconds, whichever is larger, and then attempt the call again.

In most cases, the default settings for fetch parameters are sufficient to achieve good performance without excessive

> memory usage. However, in some cases, you may need to adjust these parameters to more finely control fetch rate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory usage. However, in some cases, you may need to adjust these parameters to control fetch rate
and memory usage more finely.
```

When changing the shard count for a Kinesis stream, there will be a window of time around the resharding operation with early shutdown of Kinesis ingestion tasks and possible task failures.

The early shutdowns and task failures are expected, and they occur because the supervisor will update the shard -> task group mappings as shards are closed and fully read, to ensure that tasks are not running

> with an assignment of closed shards that have been fully read and to ensure a balanced distribution of active shards across tasks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with an assignment of closed shards that have been fully read and to ensure a balanced distribution of active shards across tasks.
```
```suggestion
with an assignment of closed shards that have been fully read and balances distribution of active shards across tasks.
```
